From hanselman.com. It's Hanselman. It's
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number 21
recorded June 11th through the 16th,
2006. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by COVID Smith
tools, makers of code Smith,
an extensible template based code
generator for.net. I now have
some minutes, listeners get $100
off code Smith professional with
coupon code H M 100.
online@covidsmithtools.com. Support is also provided
by exceeds zip for.net, which
lets you handle zip tar
and jesus' files on FTP
servers in streams in memory
and more. Now get 20%
off any exceed component or
suite just for listening to
Hansel minutes, go to shrinks.com/f
P T and use the
code H M dash 20
dash 20. And don't forget
to visit Peter bloom.com. Start
with better controls. Finish it
better sites online@peterblum.com and.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott is recorded, live
from the tech, get 2006
conference in Boston. So we're
sitting here with John Lamb hanging
out at tech ed we're
over here at the architecture.
What do they call these
things? Now? TLCs is the
techno technical learning center. How's
it going? John Lamb. I'm doing
great Scott. And what are
you working on that you
shouldn't be? Oh my God.
I'm trying to fix DAS
blog right now. So that
the, the new intelligence part
of DAS blog that begins
with a lower case where
it's not supposed to, Oh,
you bastard. Well, you know
what can I say? Right.
But yeah, I'm here to
talk about Ruby CLR at
tech ed. This is my,
this is my thing. So
at five o'clock today, it's
about two o'clock right now.
So three hours to go.
I'm going to go onstage
to talk about Ruby CLR
right after Mahesh talks about
R and Python. So I'll
get a chance to make
fun of his language and,
and all that good stuff.
Now, Ruby CLR, that sounds
like the destabilizing technology that
seems like that's something that's
kind of dangerous. Take something
controversial and wonderful, like Ruby
and something powerful and a
behemoth like CLR and you
put them together and you
say Ruby CLR. You're saying
it very, very casually. Like
there's really no, no problem
there. Well, it was really
like, it was meant to
be together. Right. You know,
and you'll see that. I
guess a lot of the
Ruby guys are certainly open
source with a capital O
capital S kind of guys.
And you know, I'm actually
rather surprised at the kind
of reception of those guys
have given Ruby CLR. They're
actually really happy that that's
happening both on the Microsoft
side and the J Ruby
side too, to build Ruby
into the JVM, right? Both
giant corporate behemoths that are
relatively anti open source. Now,
why is it that someone
clever, like you has to
go and do this as
opposed to a behemoth, having
the idea and pulling it
off themselves. Cause a giant
behemoths is actually really hard
to get anything done. So,
you know, Microsoft's a big
company and their resource constraint
just like everybody else. And,
and I'm a guy that
has a way of funding,
the development of this stuff
myself. So I'm just going
out doing it. I'm giving
it back out to the
community and seeing what else.
So, so how are you
funding this? I mean, I
know when I work on
DAS blog that doesn't exactly
get monetized. I think we've
had all of like $50
in donations. How are you
monetizing Ruby CLR? Well, I
get to monetize it cause
I'm a partner already a
consulting firm called object sharp
up in Toronto. And so
it's really because we have
all sorts of other guys
that do real billable work
that we can fund my
little science experiments, Time to
time. But you do anticipate
actually making money off this.
You're going to use this
in real projects. Yeah, absolutely.
Right. Like, like right now
it's all about trying to
build the thing to create
a market, to sell Ruby
services into the.net world. Right?
Because really, if you think
about it, most business applications
are really kind of scripting
together a whole bunch of
database components and gooey components
and those kinds of things.
So we're just gluing together
a whole bunch of stuff.
Why don't we use the
most powerful, flexible language that
we can to glue all
that stuff together. So you've
already written Avalon WinForms applications,
particularly the one that demos
the best when I demo
your stuff as the RSS
reader, if someone were going
to actually deploy this on
a system, let's assume a
machine already has a.net framework,
is your system dot and
framework specific. And how would
they deploy that? Yeah, they'll
need done framer 2.0 because
Ruby CLR leverages specific features
that only exist in, in
Donna 2.0 and you'll have
to install Ruby itself on
your box. And the nice
thing is, is that there's
a whole bunch of, you
know, instant Ruby types of
installs that are out there.
And the one in particular
is called the one-click RubyInstaller.
So it's an MSI. You
go download this thing and
it installs all the stuff
you need to run Ruby.
And then you go grab
Ruby CLR. And all you
need to do is go
to Ruby forge.org/project/ruby CLR. And
that's where that thing lives.
You can go download the
bits it's distributed in a
compiled DLL cause part of
Ruby CLR is written in
C plus plus. So the
DLL is already pre compiled
for you and a whole
bunch of source code because
most of the interesting parts
of Ruby CLR actually written
in Ruby. So could I
actually do this in a
no touch deploy? Kind of
I just ex copy, like
not actually install Ruby, but
just to have my app
plus Ruby plus should be
CLR all in one folder
and just drop it on
the side. Yeah, absolutely. That's
that's definitely a goal. So
the, the key prerequisite is
to have Ruby on your
system already. The MSI does
enough of the tricky stuff
to, to make sure it
just works. I already have
a guy that's contributed a
patch to Ruby CLR where
it's going to be a
gym and a gym is
a really nice way of,
you know, just typing jam
space, install space, Ruby CLR.
That's what the install experience
is going to be in
Ruby CLR in the next
release. Wow. So that means
that if I were writing
The application, I could write
a little installer. It would
just shell out, call Jim
install, Ruby CLR, and just
keep copying my application and
could have an icon and
sit in the start menu.
And no one would have
to know it was running
in Ruby. Exactly. Yes. Yes.
That's fantastic. So that talk
is tonight at five o'clock
five. O'clock not sure if
we'll get the podcast up
by then, but if you,
if you do see it,
if you get the podcast,
go see John's talk and
we're gonna be doing a
birds of a feather on
Ruby on it's tomorrow, Nine
o'clock, somewhere in ticket. Cool,
fantastic. Thanks a lot, John.
This portion of Hanselman, this
is brought to you by
COVID Smith tools. The most
powerful cogeneration tool on the
market with features such as
template based cogeneration, a rich
integrated template development environment, including
statement completion and a highly
extensible metadata system. That includes
database, schema, XML, and many
other sources, and now handsome
and its listeners can get
a hundred dollars off code
Smith professional with coupon code
H M 100 and just
go online to www.covidsmithtools.com. And
now let's get back to
Hansel minutes. Hey, we're hanging
out on the tech ed
floor and I've just bumped
into my arch nemesis, Jeff
Atwood. I'm here with my
buddy Patrick Callwell Jeff Howard. How
are you sir? Doing great.
And joining tech ed is
my first tech ed. So
I'm a Virgin at tech
ed. First we say Virgin
on a podcast and we
love to do that. This
is your first tech ed.
What have you been doing
for the last 15 years?
Not going to tech ed.
Well, when you don't work
for a company that values
developers, then you don't get
to go to things like
this. So now I work
for a company that actually
values developers. Wow. I would
really like to know what
company you worked for before
that didn't value of a
devalue. I currently work for
vertigo software and point Richmond
in the San Francisco Bay
area. And it's a good,
it's great. I'm a technical
evangelist there, technically when nobody
knows what that means. It's
great because nobody knows what
I do so I can
just do whatever I want.
Now, Does that involve writing
code or is it just
being Sometimes right now I'm
focusing on team system. We're
trying to get team system
engagements based on our adoption
of team system and sort
of get people to use
it, although it costs, you
know, a bajillion dollars. So
it's people that it's worth
it. So it costs a
million dollars and, and you're,
you're advocating that it's awesome.
Some companies have a jillion
dollars. See, that's the thing.
So, you know, some people
don't, some people do. It's
a great tool. It's a
great tool. I mean, what
they're doing totally makes sense.
It sort of moves you
up the evolutionary ladder of,
of developers, right? If you,
I mean, cause a lot
of developers, particularly in it
shops don't really do a
unit testing even, right? So
this is a new thing
to them. So exposing them
to unit testing, code coverage,
really basic stuff, you know,
to more advanced developers. It's
still moving them up the
evolutionary ladder. So I view
it as very good thing.
So I'm just in there
evangelizing what, you know, a
lot of advanced developers that
read blogs sort of already
know, but not everybody knows
that stuff. Okay. So point
counter point, my buddy Patrick Caldwell
is here with me. We're
gonna be doing a talk
at four 30. We're a
subversion and unit net shop.
And so you take team
system and he'll take all
the free software. And so
tell me why I should
use teams system. Yeah. First
you should throw all that
crap out. That's all crap.
No, no, I'm kidding. Actually,
one of the first things
we say to people, you
know, and then actually I
asked these questions. If you're
a hardcore subversion in unit
shop, you're probably not going
to want to change because
you have a certain way
that you're used to working
and you know, teams system
follows some of the conventions,
but not all of them.
So I wouldn't recommend if
you have a process, stick
with the process. If you
have something that's working, like
I said, this is for
developers that it shops who
really haven't reached that evolutionary
plateau yet where they're doing
the stuff. That's what this
product is for. This really
isn't for guys like you,
I mean, you should probably
be familiar with it in,
in, in sort of how
it inter-operates and stuff, but
it's really not for you,
nothing personal, but I wouldn't
actually advocate that you switch.
If you have process that
you like. So that reminds
me of the time when,
when Microsoft bought one tree
software and we all started
using visual source safe because
it was free. So Microsoft
introduced choice control. You were
probably around that during that
time, right? Patrick, did you
use SourceSafe because that's what
was free and what came
out? No, I was actually
at Intel at the time
and were using PVCs on
the command line. Wow. And
never getting corrupted databases. Did
you feel like you missed
out by not experiencing the
corruption? The pain? No. I've
experienced that since then. Right?
I've used VSS on subsequently,
but not when they first
bought one tree, I, we
didn't use it. I'm I'm
enjoying the fact that it's
a version. You can actually
find where the files are
and potentially fix them. Cause
they're just textiles. Patrick, let
me tell you a great
art comes from great pain.
You see? So you have
to experience the pain to,
to build the really beautiful
things. You'll see this in
art and music a lot,
but, but yeah, no, no.
In all seriousness, you know,
it's just, it is analogous
to source safe in that
it sort of moves you
in. So let's say it
didn't always suck. People forget,
like when it first was
purchased, it was sort of
a relatively cutting edge source
control system problems. They sorta
just never developed it again.
It was like, there was
one version and then bug
fixes for like eight years,
nine years, however long it
was a long time. So
you know, it really, isn't
just that it's a baseline
level of quality. If you
can afford it, that sort
of gets you thinking about
these processes. If one thing
you capture data, like how
many bugs did we have?
How many bugs do we
fix last week? How many
shops can't even answer that
question a lot? So let
me ask you, this is
the jump from either nothing
or from well, virtually nothing
of safe is a jump
from shore safe to TFS,
a jump that has to
include bug fixing and, and
task management and all that
kind of stuff. Or what
if I just want a
source control system from Microsoft
and that's it. You have
to want the source control
part because that's where the
heart of the system. So
if you do want source
control, then your, your gold
and all the other stuff
is like a icing on
the cake. If you will,
right? You don't have to
use it like you don't,
you don't have to use
all the advanced reporting capabilities.
You don't have to use
the bug tracking. You could
use it just for source
control via relatively pricey source
control system. But you can
certainly do that. And I
think a lot of shops
actually will do that. It'll
just be a better source
control, sustain shelving for one
thing. Actually, this is one
thing that subversion kind of
doesn't really have. It's basically
a little personal private branch
that you create. You just
shelf your stuff and you
can pull it up, put
it on the shelf and
then pull it back down
and other developers can pull
it back down. It's really
convenient. So Patrick, how would
you do the equivalent? What
he just said shelving into
version. That's essentially the same
thing, right? We, you create
your own branch in another
repository. So like we have
a user's repository, I've got
a P Caldwell folder and
the user's repository and I
just copy whatever I'm working
on there. And with the
version you can just switch
and then check in changes
there. But I have to,
I have to know what
it means, right. And I
have to know what I'm
doing and I have to,
there's no button that says
shelf. So the advantage, the
advantage to TFS is that
there is a button it's
a shelf and it's easy
to explain what that means.
Right. And on the, on
the source control side, I
I'm, I'm surprised to hear
you say that, that you
think people will go for
just the source control part.
Cause the it's kind of
overkill. Right? And if, if
so I used to be,
you know, it was an
irrational shop for awhile and
you know, if even rational
sort of told us, you
know, Hey, if you're just
going to run a ClearCase
don't bother. Right. The cool
part about ClearCase is that
it works with clear quest
and it works with, you
know, all the rest of
the tools suite, if you've
got the quarter million dollars
in licensing fees, right. It
all works holistically. CFS is
similar that the selling point,
right, is that it's all
integrated. We don't, we don't
have any of that stuff.
So yeah, we have subversion,
we have actually clear quest.
We have, you know, all
these other tools and we
managed to make them integrated,
but it's because we've established
processes to do that. Not
because it came that way.
Right. So we didn't have
the trillion dollars. We were
willing to do the work,
but it means a lot
more training, a lot more
process overhead. Right. But it
was for us. So it's
essentially through sheer force of
will. And if you have
really talented developers who can
sort of come up with
that process and like teach
the other developers about it
and then you're golden, but
a lot of places don't
have that, man. I mean,
it's really common not to
have that. It's more common.
You have a lot of
money, but not a lot
of it let alone, not
a lot of expertise. So
that's really what what team
system is about. And it's
about integration, the one button
operations and they're really compatible
worldviews, but I definitely wouldn't
one of the first things
I asked, like I said,
is, are you a hardcore
subversion, you know, in unit
shop, then you probably wouldn't
want to switch it. It
rational had the same sort
of market strategy, right? They,
they really appealed to places
that had no process and
pay, just pay us the
money. And we'll give you
process as opposed to somebody
that already has process in
place, then they're going to,
if they buy TFS, then
they're going to go, well,
it doesn't really fit my
process. And it was the
same thing with rap, right?
A lot of people want
it to use the rational
suite, but they didn't want
to buy into the full
high ceremony, you know, Rob
and they kind of, well,
while we can make it
work for agile development, if
you don't really use the
product the way it's intended
to be used, but if
you don't have any process
and then they can just
drop it in and say,
Hey look, do it like
this. It's cool. And teachers,
and it also is very
lightweight. In fact, there's a,
there's a scrum process template
in addition to the Microsoft
agile process template. So it
does actually accommodate and they
say, you know, look, you
can not use all the
features that you don't need.
You can just cherry pick
the things that are interesting
to you and use them.
They don't really force you
to have a process. There's
just all this cool stuff
is there for you to
take advantage of it. And
you'll see teams, you go
in and talk to them.
They start thinking about all
the stuff, which is the
whole point like, wow, maybe
we should all have a
shared source control server and
not work in these little
departments where nobody knows what
anybody's doing. So it just
drags them up and running
the evolutionary ladder. On the
other hand, the pricing can
be difficult for people to
deal with the analogy I
use. It's like sort of
like walking into McDonald's and
seeing like, you know, $50
flank steak on the menu.
This is just not something
it's all pricing level that
you don't expect from McDonald's
could be an excellent steak,
but you didn't really walk
into McDonald's expecting, you know,
a 40, $50 steak on
the menu. So it sort
of shocks people. But if
you look at like the
pricing of rational of the
things that if you went
down a feature matrix and
say, what does this actually
compare to? And how much
does it cost? It's actually
cheaper than the rational systems.
It's just so, so few
people actually look at that
because it's just not a
mainstream tool, right. Nobody says,
Oh, I'm gonna use rational
PSS, which they get with
their, with license are they're
comparing it to subversion or
CVS, which they can go
get for, you know, free
as in puppy. But you're
right. I mean, when you
compare it to rational, I'm
sure it's competitive or any
of the other big, you
know, inner solve or any
of the other big merits.
Sorry, then, then it is
competitive. Yeah. It's not like
you're expecting a happy meal.
Right. And that's not having
trouble keeping track of all
these analogies. So I heard
free like a puppy subversion,
flank steak at McDonald's TVs.
Yeah. Alright, fantastic. And that's
it from here on the
tech ed floor with Jeff
Atwood and Patrick Caldwell, This portion
of Hanselminutes is brought to
you by exceed zip for.net.
The only multitalented compression component
use it to handle files,
folders, and data anywhere easily
in zip tar and jesus'
files on FTP servers in
streams, in memory and more
solve all your data manipulation
needs at once. And now
you can get 20% off,
any exceed component or suite
just for listening to Hanselman,
it's go to shrink stir.com/f
P T and enter coupon
code H M dash 20
dash 20. And now let's
get back to Hansel minutes.
We're hanging out at the
T L C the technical
learning center, not a cabana,
right? It's not the Cabana's
like they called it last
year. It's not the, not
the tent. It's not the
it's the TLC. And I
got Clemons Vassar's I got
Joshua Flanagan flimflam and I
got Steve mains. We got
two Indigo guys, two non
Indigo guys. And we sat
here, we're sitting here trying
to talk about DAS blog
and the future of blog.
We sent out a note
to our entire dash blog
developers group and say, Hey
guys, let's all hook up
a tech head. And I
think we've got about 10
people saying, yeah, we'll check
it out. If it's now
15 minutes into our meeting
and who has shown up
Clemens, we have Four people
showing up And is this
representative of open source software
in some way? Yeah. Everybody's
Christ's array. And then in
the end, it's two guys
doing the work. How do
you feel by that? Joshua
as someone who just recently
jumped right back in and
does blogging started doing some
serious damage? Well, I figured
this is exactly what I
wanted to have something like
this, so we could get
some direction and motivation to
get people motivated to contribute.
But I guess we need
to get something before that.
Do you think we ought
to just, do you think
we ought to just find
people walking by and just
grab them? Like, do you
have asp.net skills maybe they'll
get involved that might work.
That might work. It might
be a more effective than
our current approach. We would
need a weapon. We would
need weapons too. Yeah. I
see guns or something. Now
Steve vain from Steve Mann,
from the end team. Now
you're not in a Dutch
blog project, but you showed
up because of the, the
massive crowd that you saw
forming around us here. Right.
You know, absolutely. Scott. It
was really your animal magnetism
that pulled me in off
the street. I appreciate that
very much. So it is
not a coincidence that two
of the guys here are
from the Indigo team. Why
in the world with the
dusk blog open source team
like Josh or myself and
the other guys that didn't
show have any interest in
talking to the Indigo team
and Clemens as the grandfather
or great-grandfather of, of DAS
blog. Why do you Care?
Oh, because we're trying to
stage a, a complete takeover
of the, So you're doing
a hostile takeover of Josh
blog from the WCF point
of view WTF. What's the
deal. Yeah. It's daddy's coming
home. Daddy has returned to
the project. Okay. So what,
what is it you're going
to break and plug in
with Indigo. I think we
want to own the wire.
That's all you guys can
do all the UI stuff
and we're just going to
own the wire and everything
that goes across the wire.
So this is very interesting
because ordinarily you would think
there's not much going on
in the wire with something
like a type of blog
engine, but there's more entry
points and exit points than
one would think, right? What
are the different places that
information might flow into a
blog? The simplest one is
certainly referrals and that's a
channel. That's a very interesting
to police. First of all,
because of the spam, it's
an interesting place to drive
statistics from. It's an interesting
place to correlate information on.
Then we have comments. We
have, we have, certainly we
have mailed postings. We have
mail that's outflowing for notifications.
We have track backs, ping
backs. We've got all the
API APIs to, or external
web services to control things.
So you can post stuff
to it. You can. Yeah.
And that's currently XML RPC.
So you have all sorts
of different, different end points
that go in it, except
in addition to the UI
stuff. So the creepiest thing
that you just said, there
was male, male pop three
as an API. Steve, do
you think that that's kind
weird to say the Indigo
could Have a male, a
male channel? No, I don't
think that's weird at all.
I've actually written one. No,
I think so. One of
my personal absolute favorite features
in early versions of gospel
hope was the mail to
web blog functionality, which somehow
we broke in later version.
The reason that that's actually
broke, I did a little
analysis it's because that function
has a cyclometic complexity of
80. Yeah. So for those,
that would be Clemens's fault.
No, I don't think it's
weird to think about Indigo
taking data in from all
sorts of different transports. I
mean, one of the things
that I've really enjoyed doing
is using Indigo extensibility to
kind of make it stand
up, stand up on its
head and do tricks and
all sorts of interesting ways.
So I've done kind of
an XML. I've done an
XML RPC stack actually built
on top of Indego, which
I think is kind of
interesting, which is one of
the reasons I'm standing here.
So is there, so in
the last 30 seconds you've
said that you've written a
pop three, a channel for
Indigo and an XML RPC,
where, where are these things?
Are they in your pocket?
Are they on code Plex?
Where would someone get ahold
of that kind of stuff?
They will be on code
Plex soon. So the SMTP
transport is actually on my
blog. So it's on hyperthink.net.
It was a ports of
the wizzy to, or the
wizzy to transport I did,
which got moved over to
wizzy three and eventually over
to Indigo. So it's kind
of, yeah, well it uses
its SMTP on receive and
yeah. Cool. So Joshua, as
someone who's worked on the
dashboard program and you know,
the whole thing from, you
know, left and right. But
I assume you don't know
much about Indigo, is this
freaking you out? Yes, absolutely.
And now as someone who's
recently jumped into the project
and you know, done a
lot of really good stuff
for us, does this make
you want to just jump
in to go and start
doing some damage? Or do
you think that maybe it's
time to just pick another
blog engine? No, absolutely. I'm
intrigued. I want to jump
right in and see what
we got. Alright, very cool.
Are you not going to
make us run this thing
on Longhorn your Clements? No,
you can run it on
XP. You can run it
on a windows server, 2003.
You can run it on
Vista and on the lawn
horror stuff. Fantastic. Well, this
has been Scott Hanselman. I'm
on the floor here at
tech ed and I'll catch
you at a later.